README.md, before:

<!-- omit in toc -->
# Semantic Release CodeArtifact

[![npm package][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Build Status][build-img]][build-url]
[![Downloads][downloads-img]][downloads-url]
[![Issues][issues-img]][issues-url]
[![Code Coverage][codecov-img]][codecov-url]
[![Commitizen Friendly][commitizen-img]][commitizen-url]
[![Semantic Release][semantic-release-img]][semantic-release-url]

A [semantic-release](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) plugin
for publishing packages to [AWS CodeArtifact](https://aws.amazon.com/codeartifact/),
allowing you fully automate your package release workflow while adhering to the
[Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) (SemVer) specification.

<!-- omit in toc -->
## Table of Contents

- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Demo](#demo)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [IAM Policy for Publishing](#iam-policy-for-publishing)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
  - [AWS Environment variables](#aws-environment-variables)
  - [Plugin environment variables](#plugin-environment-variables)
  - [Options](#options)
- [Lifecycle Hooks](#lifecycle-hooks)
- [Recipes](#recipes)
  - [CI Configurations](#ci-configurations)
- [Additional Usage](#additional-usage)
  - [JavaScript - npm](#javascript---npm)
    - [Plugin Configuration with npm](#plugin-configuration-with-npm)
  - [pip - Python](#pip---python)
  - [Maven - Java](#maven---java)
  - [Gradle - Java](#gradle---java)

## Install

```bash
npm install -D semantic-release semantic-release-codeartifact
```

## Usage

The plugin can be configured in the [**semantic-release** configuration file](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/master/docs/usage/configuration.md#configuration):

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    "@semantic-release/commit-analyzer",
    "@semantic-release/release-notes-generator",
    ["semantic-release-codeartifact", {
      "tool": "npm",
      "domain": "<YOUR_DOMAIN>",
      "repository": "<YOUR_REPOSITORY>"
    }],
    "@semantic-release/npm",
    "@semantic-release/github"
  ]
}
```

See [Additional Usage](#additional-usage) for details on using other tools with this plugin.

## Demo

Check out [this example repo](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact-example) to see it in action.

## Requirements

In order to use **semantic-release** you need:

- To host your code in a [Git repository](https://git-scm.com)
- Use a Continuous Integration service that allows you to [securely set up credentials](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/master/docs/usage/ci-configuration.md#authentication)
- Git CLI version [2.7.1 or higher](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/master/docs/support/FAQ.md#why-does-semantic-release-require-git-version--271) installed in your Continuous Integration environment
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) version [10.18 or higher](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/master/docs/support/FAQ.md#why-does-semantic-release-require-node-version--1018) installed in your Continuous Integration environment

In order to use **semantic-release-codeartifact** you need:

- An [AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/)
- An [AWS CodeArtifact](https://aws.amazon.com/codeartifact/) repository
- A role your CI environment can assume with sufficient [IAM permissions to publish packages](#iam-policy-for-publishing) with CodeArtifact

### IAM Policy for Publishing

The IAM role used by your CI environment will need the following permissions:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "codeartifact:GetAuthorizationToken",
        "codeartifact:GetRepositoryEndpoint",
        "codeartifact:PublishPackageVersion"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "sts:GetServiceBearerToken",
      "Resource": "*",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "sts:AWSServiceName": "codeartifact.amazonaws.com"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Configuration

### AWS Environment variables

The AWS configuration is **required** for the AWS SDK which is used for getting
an auth token for CodeArtifact.

| Variable                | Description                                              |
| ----------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `AWS_REGION`            | **Required.** The AWS region to be used with the AWS SDK |
| `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | **Required.** Your AWS Access Key                        |
| `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | **Required.**  Your AWS Secret Access Key                |
| `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN`     | Session token if you have/need it                        |

### Plugin environment variables

The following environment variables can be set to configure the plugin. [Options](#options)
specified by plugin config will take precedence over these environment variables.

| Variable             | Description                                                            |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `SR_CA_TOOL`         | Tool to connect with the CodeArtifact repository                       |
| `SR_CA_DOMAIN`       | Your CodeArtifact domain name                                          |
| `SR_CA_REPOSITORY`   | Your CodeArtifact repository name                                      |
| `SR_CA_DOMAIN_OWNER` | The AWS Account ID that owns your CodeArtifact domain                  |
| `SR_CA_DURATION_SEC` | The time, in seconds, that login information for CodeArtifact is valid |

### Options

| Option             | Description                                                            | Default                                   |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `tool`             | **Required.** Tool to connect with the CodeArtifact repository         | `SR_CA_TOOL` environment variable.        |
| `domain`           | **Required.** Your CodeArtifact domain name                            | `SR_CA_DOMAIN` environment variable.      |
| `repository`       | **Required.** Your CodeArtifact repository name                        | `SR_CA_REPOSITORY` environment variable   |
| `domainOwner`      | The AWS Account ID that owns your CodeArtifact domain                  | `SR_CA_DOMAIN_OWNER` environment variable |
| `durationSections` | The time, in seconds, that login information for CodeArtifact is valid | `7200` (2 hours)                          |

## Lifecycle Hooks

| Step               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `verifyConditions` | Verify the presence and the validity of the authentication (set via [configuration](#configuration)), and provide authentication values to the semantic-release plugin related to the CodeArtifact tool being used |

## Recipes

### CI Configurations

- Github Actions ([coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/5))
- GitLab ([coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/6))
- CircleCI ([coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/7))

## Additional Usage

CodeArtifact supports multiple tools including npm (JavaScript), Maven and Gradle
(Java), and pip (Python). Each contain different dependencies and are listed below.

### JavaScript - npm

Required dependencies:

- [`@semantic-release/npm`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@semantic-release/npm)

```bash
npm install --save-dev semantic-release semantic-release-codeartifact
```

#### Plugin Configuration with npm

*semantic-release includes the other plugins listed below:*

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    "@semantic-release/commit-analyzer",
    "@semantic-release/release-notes-generator",
    ["semantic-release-codeartifact", {
      "tool": "npm",
      "domain": "<YOUR_DOMAIN>",
      "repository": "<YOUR_REPOSITORY>"
    }],
    "@semantic-release/npm",
    "@semantic-release/github"
  ]
}
```

**Note:** `semantic-release-codeartifact` must be listed before `@semantic-release/npm`

### pip - Python

[Support for pip coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/8)

### Maven - Java

[Support for Maven coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/9)

### Gradle - Java

[Support for Gradle coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/10)

[build-img]:https://travis-ci.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact.svg?branch=main
[build-url]:https://travis-ci.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact
[downloads-img]:https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/semantic-release-codeartifact
[downloads-url]:https://www.npmtrends.com/semantic-release-codeartifact
[npm-img]:https://img.shields.io/npm/v/semantic-release-codeartifact
[npm-url]:https://www.npmjs.com/package/semantic-release-codeartifact
[issues-img]:https://img.shields.io/github/issues/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact
[issues-url]:https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues
[codecov-img]:https://codecov.io/gh/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/branch/main/graph/badge.svg
[codecov-url]:https://codecov.io/gh/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact
[semantic-release-img]:https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg
[semantic-release-url]:https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release
[commitizen-img]:https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg
[commitizen-url]:http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/

Commit message:

feat(aws-sdk): add proxy support (#20)
This change adds support for http/https proxies found on the environment via aws-sdk-v3-proxy

closes #2

README.md, after:

<!-- omit in toc -->
# Semantic Release CodeArtifact

[![npm package][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Build Status][build-img]][build-url]
[![Downloads][downloads-img]][downloads-url]
[![Issues][issues-img]][issues-url]
[![Code Coverage][codecov-img]][codecov-url]
[![Commitizen Friendly][commitizen-img]][commitizen-url]
[![Semantic Release][semantic-release-img]][semantic-release-url]

A [semantic-release](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) plugin
for publishing packages to [AWS CodeArtifact](https://aws.amazon.com/codeartifact/),
allowing you fully automate your package release workflow while adhering to the
[Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) (SemVer) specification.

<!-- omit in toc -->
## Table of Contents

- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Demo](#demo)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [IAM Policy for Publishing](#iam-policy-for-publishing)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
  - [AWS Environment variables](#aws-environment-variables)
  - [Plugin environment variables](#plugin-environment-variables)
  - [Options](#options)
- [Lifecycle Hooks](#lifecycle-hooks)
- [Recipes](#recipes)
  - [CI Configurations](#ci-configurations)
- [Additional Usage](#additional-usage)
  - [JavaScript - npm](#javascript---npm)
    - [Plugin Configuration with npm](#plugin-configuration-with-npm)
  - [pip - Python](#pip---python)
  - [Maven - Java](#maven---java)
  - [Gradle - Java](#gradle---java)

## Install

```bash
npm install -D semantic-release semantic-release-codeartifact
```

## Usage

The plugin can be configured in the [**semantic-release** configuration file](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/master/docs/usage/configuration.md#configuration):

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    "@semantic-release/commit-analyzer",
    "@semantic-release/release-notes-generator",
    ["semantic-release-codeartifact", {
      "tool": "npm",
      "domain": "<YOUR_DOMAIN>",
      "repository": "<YOUR_REPOSITORY>"
    }],
    "@semantic-release/npm",
    "@semantic-release/github"
  ]
}
```

See [Additional Usage](#additional-usage) for details on using other tools with this plugin.

## Demo

Check out [this example repo](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact-example) to see it in action.

## Requirements

In order to use **semantic-release** you need:

- To host your code in a [Git repository](https://git-scm.com)
- Use a Continuous Integration service that allows you to [securely set up credentials](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/master/docs/usage/ci-configuration.md#authentication)
- Git CLI version [2.7.1 or higher](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/master/docs/support/FAQ.md#why-does-semantic-release-require-git-version--271) installed in your Continuous Integration environment
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) version [10.18 or higher](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/master/docs/support/FAQ.md#why-does-semantic-release-require-node-version--1018) installed in your Continuous Integration environment

In order to use **semantic-release-codeartifact** you need:

- An [AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-and-activate-aws-account/)
- An [AWS CodeArtifact](https://aws.amazon.com/codeartifact/) repository
- A role your CI environment can assume with sufficient [IAM permissions to publish packages](#iam-policy-for-publishing) with CodeArtifact

### IAM Policy for Publishing

The IAM role used by your CI environment will need the following permissions:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "codeartifact:GetAuthorizationToken",
        "codeartifact:GetRepositoryEndpoint",
        "codeartifact:PublishPackageVersion"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "sts:GetServiceBearerToken",
      "Resource": "*",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "sts:AWSServiceName": "codeartifact.amazonaws.com"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Configuration

### AWS Environment variables

The AWS configuration is **required** for the AWS SDK which is used for getting
an auth token for CodeArtifact.

| Variable                | Description                                              |
| ----------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `AWS_REGION`            | **Required.** The AWS region to be used with the AWS SDK |
| `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | **Required.** Your AWS Access Key                        |
| `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | **Required.**  Your AWS Secret Access Key                |
| `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN`     | Session token if you have/need it                        |

**Note:** Proxy configurations are supported and will be used if HTTP_PROXY or HTTPS_PROXY
is found on the environment with [aws-sdk-v3-proxy](https://github.com/ryansonshine/aws-sdk-v3-proxy).

### Plugin environment variables

The following environment variables can be set to configure the plugin. [Options](#options)
specified by plugin config will take precedence over these environment variables.

| Variable             | Description                                                            |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `SR_CA_TOOL`         | Tool to connect with the CodeArtifact repository                       |
| `SR_CA_DOMAIN`       | Your CodeArtifact domain name                                          |
| `SR_CA_REPOSITORY`   | Your CodeArtifact repository name                                      |
| `SR_CA_DOMAIN_OWNER` | The AWS Account ID that owns your CodeArtifact domain                  |
| `SR_CA_DURATION_SEC` | The time, in seconds, that login information for CodeArtifact is valid |

### Options

| Option             | Description                                                            | Default                                   |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `tool`             | **Required.** Tool to connect with the CodeArtifact repository         | `SR_CA_TOOL` environment variable.        |
| `domain`           | **Required.** Your CodeArtifact domain name                            | `SR_CA_DOMAIN` environment variable.      |
| `repository`       | **Required.** Your CodeArtifact repository name                        | `SR_CA_REPOSITORY` environment variable   |
| `domainOwner`      | The AWS Account ID that owns your CodeArtifact domain                  | `SR_CA_DOMAIN_OWNER` environment variable |
| `durationSections` | The time, in seconds, that login information for CodeArtifact is valid | `7200` (2 hours)                          |

## Lifecycle Hooks

| Step               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `verifyConditions` | Verify the presence and the validity of the authentication (set via [configuration](#configuration)), and provide authentication values to the semantic-release plugin related to the CodeArtifact tool being used |

## Recipes

### CI Configurations

- Github Actions ([coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/5))
- GitLab ([coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/6))
- CircleCI ([coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/7))

## Additional Usage

CodeArtifact supports multiple tools including npm (JavaScript), Maven and Gradle
(Java), and pip (Python). Each contain different dependencies and are listed below.

### JavaScript - npm

Required dependencies:

- [`@semantic-release/npm`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@semantic-release/npm)

```bash
npm install --save-dev semantic-release semantic-release-codeartifact
```

#### Plugin Configuration with npm

*semantic-release includes the other plugins listed below:*

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    "@semantic-release/commit-analyzer",
    "@semantic-release/release-notes-generator",
    ["semantic-release-codeartifact", {
      "tool": "npm",
      "domain": "<YOUR_DOMAIN>",
      "repository": "<YOUR_REPOSITORY>"
    }],
    "@semantic-release/npm",
    "@semantic-release/github"
  ]
}
```

**Note:** `semantic-release-codeartifact` must be listed before `@semantic-release/npm`

### pip - Python

[Support for pip coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/8)

### Maven - Java

[Support for Maven coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/9)

### Gradle - Java

[Support for Gradle coming soon](https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues/10)

[build-img]:https://travis-ci.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact.svg?branch=main
[build-url]:https://travis-ci.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact
[downloads-img]:https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/semantic-release-codeartifact
[downloads-url]:https://www.npmtrends.com/semantic-release-codeartifact
[npm-img]:https://img.shields.io/npm/v/semantic-release-codeartifact
[npm-url]:https://www.npmjs.com/package/semantic-release-codeartifact
[issues-img]:https://img.shields.io/github/issues/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact
[issues-url]:https://github.com/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/issues
[codecov-img]:https://codecov.io/gh/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact/branch/main/graph/badge.svg
[codecov-url]:https://codecov.io/gh/ryansonshine/semantic-release-codeartifact
[semantic-release-img]:https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg
[semantic-release-url]:https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release
[commitizen-img]:https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg
[commitizen-url]:http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/
